Privacy Act 1988 (ACT)

DESCRIPTION OF THE ACT:
This act applies to “APP entities”, which are agencies (federal government) or organisations. This act is in place in order to regulate what information can be collected, and how it can be stored.

DEFINITIONS
APP entities:
Agencies
A minister of government (e.g. Michelle Roberts, minister for police)
A government department (e.g. department of finance)
A commonwealth appointed body or tribunal
A body established by the governor-general or by a minister
A federal court
The Australian Federal Police
A Norfolk Island Agency
Some other agencies may be applicable under this act
Organisations
May refer to any companies, whether an individual, body corporate, partnership, unincorporated association or a trust.
Does not refer to small businesses, who have an annual income of less than $3mil.

OVERVIEW OF THE ACT
You may remain anonymous or use a fake name when dealing with an APP entity
Personal, sensitive information can be collected, but only when the individual has given consent (unless an exception applies).
An APP entity must inform you why the information is collected, who the information is accessed by and how you can see or correct your information.
An APP entity cannot use your information for reasons outside of the original purpose of the collection
An APP entity cannot use your information for marketing unless consented to or if it is reasonably expected
APP entities cannot use or disclose any identifying information that has been assigned by a government agency (e.g. drivers license number, medicare number, passport number & tax file number).
APP entities must provide you with access to your personal information if requested (unless an exception applies).

YOUR OVERALL RIGHTS
In most cases you are not obliged to give information to APP entities, but if you do give information, you are entitled to know what the information is for, and can request to change or remove it.

Access the act: https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2014C00076

