The Surveillance Device Act 1998 (WA)

DESCRIPTION OF THE ACT
This act talks about your rights in relation to being recorded or tracked without your consent

DEFINITIONS
Private activity refers to activities where it is obvious that the individuals do not want others to observe them, which is not in a public area. If it is reasonable to expect that the activity could be observed naturally, it is not private.
Private conversations are similar, if it is obvious that the individuals do not want others to listen to them, and it is not a public area, and it is not reasonable to expect that the conversations could be heard naturally it is a private conversation.
These laws do not apply to police officers, or people working for the police. They also do not apply if consent is given, or if the installation of a surveillance device is for the benefit of the person (security devices)
Listening devices may not be installed to listen to private conversations when the individual is not aware the conversation is being recorded.
Cameras may not be installed to record or observe any private activity, unless consent is obtained
The same applies to tracking devices.
Surveillance devices may be used when a court has decided there is suspicion of a crime
If private information has been gained as a result of an illegal surveillance, they are not permitted to publish or pass on this information.
Listening devices and cameras may be used if the matter is understood to be a matter of urgent public interest, but must report to a judge quickly as to why a device was used. Further from this, recordings may be published if a judge agrees it is in the best for public interest.

YOUR OVERALL RIGHTS
Private conversations or activity may not be recorded unless consent is given, and tracking devices cannot be placed unless it is done by a police officer.

Access the act:  https://www.legislation.wa.gov.au/legislation/prod/filestore.nsf/FileURL/mrdoc_27928.pdf/$FILE/  Surveillance%20Devices%20Act%201998%20-%20%5B02-f0-02%5D.pdf?OpenElement

